[Follower] Sync using snapshot. (#133)
movementlabsxyz/movement-docs: docs/devs/followerNode_from_docker_file.md

---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Sync a Follower Node with default DB archive

This guide will help you to sync an existing Bardock follower node. This procedure is only for Bardock Testnet network.
If you don't have a Bardock instance setup follows the Bardock Ansible script installation of this [guide](followerNode_from_genesis.md) with this following commit: ```afddfd02d627b2a8189751950eefca3a59ddfe3b``` .

## Hardware Recommendations

To do the restoration the partition `/` should have at least 400GB of free space.

## Configurations files updates

Verify the Systemd Bardock service file: `/etc/systemd/system/movement-full-follower.service`
Validate that the `CONTAINER_REV`  var is correctly set as follow:

```Environment="CONTAINER_REV=afddfd02d627b2a8189751950eefca3a59ddfe3b"```

## Update the docker files

Go in the directory `$HOME/movement` and type:

```
git checkout afddfd02d627b2a8189751950eefca3a59ddfe3b
```

## Restoration script

> The HOME directory is the directory where the `.movement` folder is located. It should be in `/home/ubuntu` or `/home/ssm-user` folder depending on you OS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The HOME directory is the directory where the `.movement` folder is located. It should be in `/home/ubuntu` or `/home/ssm-user` folder depending on your OS.
```

In the Home directory create a new script file call `restoration.sh` and copy past this content using `nano` or `vi`:

```
#!/bin/bash -e

# Stop the node if needed.
systemctl stop  movement-full-follower.service

export DOT_MOVEMENT_PATH=/home/ubuntu/.movement
export CONTAINER_REV=afddfd02d627b2a8189751950eefca3a59ddfe3b
export MOVEMENT_SYNC="follower::mtnet-l-sync-bucket-sync<=>{maptos,maptos-storage,suzuka-da-db}/**"
export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=us-west-1
export AWS_REGION=us-west-1
export MAPTOS_CHAIN_ID=250
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID="<access key>"
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY="<secret key>"
export SYNC_PATTERN="{maptos,maptos-storage,suzuka-da-db}/**"
export SYNC_BUCKET="mtnet-l-sync-bucket-sync"

# Restore the DB.
/usr/bin/docker compose --env-file movement/.env -f ./movement/docker/compose/movement-full-node/snapshot/docker-compose.restore.yml up --force-recreate

# Start the node.
systemctl start  movement-full-follower.service
```

> Update the <access key> and <secret key> with the values you'll find in the file: `/etc/systemd/system/movement-full-follower.service`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the <access key> and <secret key> with the values from the file: `/etc/systemd/system/movement-full-follower.service`.
```

Set the script executable with: ```chmod +x restoration.sh```

## Start the node restoration

To start the node db restoration from a recent snapshot execute this command from the HOME directory:

```
./restoration.sh
```

> The restoration should start. It take around 1 hour depending on the speed of the hard drive and network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The restoration should start. It can take around 1 hour depending on the speed of the hard drive and network.
```

> At the end of the restoration the script restart the node.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the end of the restoration the script will restart the node.
```

The node should sync with the leader node.

After a few minutes, to verify, use these commands:

To get the current leader Bardock state:

```
curl https://aptos.testnet.bardock.movementlabs.xyz/v1
```

To get your follower state:

```
curl 127.0.0.1:30731/v1
```

> Both `ledger_version` and `block_height` state should be near or the same.

Reviewer: Let's qualify "near" here, how much a diff in blockheight do we accept as a successful restoration? 100, 1000?

Author: If both request are done in lest than 10 seconds, the diff of block_heigth should be less than 10. Currently, it's the same.
So I agree near is too vague, but the diff depends on the activity of the node and how fast you do both query.
This doc is temporary because this process will change, so I'm not sure, we need to add more detail now.

## Run Locally

> This procedure can be done locally with these differences:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test restoration against a local node and not a real work, do the following:
```
